Hey folks. You're a very
good developer, probably regardless. You
do write bugs. That's unavoidable.
What is affordable is wasting
time trying to track down
the cause of those bugs
century.io provides full stack error
tracking that lets you monitor
and fix problems. In real
time, you can see the
severity and the scope of
the error. Get immediate access
to the stack, trace connect
the problem to the commit
that caused it and fix
it without delay century to
name so common that they
have to include the top
level domain in their advertising
to make sure you remember
it. century.io, that century dot
I O open source, full
stack web apps, native apps,
mobile games, smart oven mitts.
If you can program it,
they can make it far
easier to fix any errors
you encounter with it. Your
code may be broken. Let's
fix it together. Visit century.io.
. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
I'm talking with truest is
a postdoctoral research scientist at
Facebook reality labs. He's worked
at Pixar and he's written
a great new book called
cloth simulation for computer graphics.
How are you? Hi, I'm
good. How are you? I'm
very well. I'm happy to
be talking to you. I'm
trying to learn as much
as I can about games
and computer graphics and how
things are built. And I
had a gentleman on a
couple of weeks ago talking
about the game engine behind
doom, and now you've got
this new book out cloth
simulation for computer graphics, a
little light reading, and I'm
excited to talk to you
about it. This is a,
not necessarily a 500 page
book about like science it's
really quite accessible, isn't it?
Yeah, I think that was
the main goal that I
had is that if you
want to try it and
get into like any type
of simulation, it's usually very,
very dense math and very
technical terms. And I tried
to write the book, which
is more accessible with a
little bit of background story.
How like people use it
an industry, whereas where all
the algorithms coming from, how,
what does the math actually
mean more intuitively? So this
is like not intending to
be a, an overview of
all things happening in the
space, but rather an on
ramp into the space. Exactly.
So it's not covering like
the latest years of research,
but it gives you a
very nice introduction or like
the different steps you would
take if you were to
get into this type of
study. So it starts with
very simple two motion techniques,
which of course have some
like many limitations. And then
it, instead of we advanced
to more complex techniques and
we do actually mention the
technique that is used in
industry today, but of course
there's many other additional techniques
have been developed since. So
it's definitely not covering the
latest and greatest research, but
if you understand everything in
the book, it should be
straightforward to go to those
research papers that you can
find it like SIGGRAPH for
other conferences. No. When I
hear about what I think
as a lay person are
highly specialized or highly technical
things, I think to myself,
Oh, there's probably three people
in the world that care
about this. But in fact,
you say that this is
actually a vast amount of
people doing research in this
space. And every year they're
creating new literature on cloth
simulation. I wouldn't say vast,
but there's definitely a fair
amount of people working on
it just because there's a
lot of applications at the
moment, I would say. So
it's heavily used in movie
production for special effects or
like animated features. And then
also there's the fashion industry
which use maybe virtual prototyping
or virtual fitting rooms. So
it definitely has a lot
of applications, which makes it
interesting for, for people that
work in, in the field.
And do we only care
about cloth simulation for, you
know, making the guy in
the Assassin's creed, like a
run more realistically or what
are other use cases? Well,
that's a great use case,
of course, but other use
cases are, well, like I
said, movies. So any movie
that you go watch, if
it has special effects like
explosions and whatnot or virtual
environments, it probably has some
sort of cost similarity to
maybe for simulating leaves or
actual clothing on, on, on
characters. And obviously for animated
movies, all the clothing, maybe
the curtain or a flag
waving in the background, those
are all stimulated materials. So
that's one more of the
entertainment industry applications. And I
think one other big application
is, is like I said,
like fashion, for instance, like
online retail, I think a
lot of companies would love
very fast computer software that
can simulate clothing on virtual
bodies so that people can
try on clothes virtually before
buying them. Cause that would
have a lot of economical
impact. Of course. Wow. That's
interesting. That would imply that
I could potentially, I'm just
imagining some future world here
where I put on my
VR headset and some, at
some point I've either scanned
myself with a webcam or
with my phone and then
I stand in a virtual
place and try clothes on
Basically. Yeah, exactly. And then
the idea is that you
have your own body model,
that's a, a good estimate
of your own body. And
then you can try on
the clothing and then they
should represent the actual physical
clothing. And then you can
see if it's drapes well
on your body. If you
should go get a size
bigger, get a size smaller,
it's like going to a
store and actually trying it
on. Right. So you can
actually see a drape. Yeah.
And it doesn't feel like
we're that far away from
it. I noticed recently when
my iPhone updated, it has
a measurement tool that allows
me to basically use it
as a virtual ruler just
by moving it in space.
It's pretty straightforward to extrapolate
to a world in the
next couple of years where
I could do this. Yeah.
I think it's definitely possible.
There's a few Engineering things
to overcome of course, and
make it fast and reliable,
like, like any good application,
but it's definitely not farfetched
to have it in the
next coming years. It's probably
not 10 years out. I've
read some of the papers
that you've published and I've
looked at different articles as
well as some animations that
have come out with various
papers in the space. And
it's one of those things
where I think when it
works, we, as the lay
people don't think about it,
but when it doesn't work,
we go, wow. That person,
that virtual person is really
awkward. Yeah. That's, that's the
difficult thing. And especially with
people in their faces, it's
really hard to convince people,
but usually for clothing, unless
you work in clothing, like
in the simulation of it,
like you don't typically focus
on, on what people are
wearing. Like are the faults
realistic? It doesn't collide with
the body or has it,
does it have like an
accurate friction models? I think
as a viewer, you're not,
you're typically focused on the
face, which makes it really
hard to recreate the face.
But we get away with
like the clothing a little
bit easier. I have a
friend of mine who has
a master's degree in costume
design and another degree in
something around like English history
or English literature. And they
went to see like Robin
hood or something. And she
said that she had to
walk out because as a
person who is an expert
in this space, she was
like, I couldn't, I couldn't
focus because the stitching was
wrong on Robin Hood's shirt.
Like that stitch wasn't invented
until whatever, whatever. I wonder
if in your space, now
that you're doing postdoctoral research,
do you have trouble going
to see a movie? And
you, this guy can't watch
this because that cloth is
completely wrong. And that flag
is totally distracting. Nothing. Not
that it's wrong, but I
definitely do have to watch
it twice, once to focus
on like the clothing and
the simulations. But they do
that where they like did
some manual tweaking and then
once for the story, of
course. So it's not like
I'm, I can't watch it
cause it's not good. Definitely
not. But it's more like
out of interest, like how
did they pull this effect
off? How did they do
that? That's good. So for
the most part, you're not
watching to hate, you're watching
to appreciate And to learn.
Right. So yeah, for sure.
I read in an article
that Pixar had a challenge
with the movie Coco because
the bodies underneath the cloth
were a, were not really
bodies. They were a skeleton.
That's the problem that they
had is that skeletons are
really pointy and it was
hard to make it collide
with the clothing without puncturing
through the clothing. So yeah,
David did a whole revamp
of the, of the simulation
engine to fix all of
that. So is that an,
is that an engine, like
speaking about how you would
do this for a movie,
I'm imagining that you get
it mostly right. And then
the director of the movie
says, well, everything's great. Except
in this one part where
he turns his body, this
is wrong. Do you have
to then go back and
rebuild your engine and change
your equation? It's not necessarily
like that low level that
you have to change your
equations. Typically we, or one
would try to find constraints
or extra additional elements on
top of it. You build
on top of it to,
to enforce certain like director
comments or anything like that.
Yeah. It was at work.
Maybe you could explain the
pipeline a little bit because
from the outside, I know
that there's the three D
modelers, but there's also the
people who make the tools
that make the movies. Yeah.
So there's, there's a lot
of people involved of course,
but the big picture is
that you have the artists
and they create the clothing
garments. And th the garments
were then used as the
initial state for the simulator.
And then the simulator will
take body motion and the
environment such as a wind
gravity, and then it will
advance the simulation and forward
in time. So you get
the moving close on the
body. And then, so then
you get your simulation result,
which is a video of,
of the clothing. And then
typically would show it to
the director. And they would
say like, Oh, I like
it. Or I like to
request some changes. And then
you go, the artists would
go back and try to
change the simulation parameters. Maybe
like change gravity or the
wind there may be, have
like explicit constraints that you
put onto the clothing to
make it do certain things.
And then you kind of
iterate over that. So you
can finally get the result
that you want. Do you
think about the state of
the cloth in the sense
of, I mean, I suppose
you could model that like
the universe, like the, like
the quantum machine that we
live in models it, and
think about the molecules, or
you could think about it
in another, in an, in
a more holistic view. Yeah.
I think in graphics, since
we're not necessarily concerned with
the right solution, but more
with a reliable solution that
looks good. We tend to
discrete ties just using triangles.
Cause that's the very typical
in computer graphics and computers
are optimized for that. So
like the clothing would be
divided into little triangles and
then we would simulate over
that. Okay. So then you're
thinking about it as a
continuous like elastic sheet. So
there's a, you have to
get, read the book to
get the full, the different
methods, but there's different approaches
to it. So one, I
would say the most simple
approach is probably just like,
do look at it as
like a bunch of point
masses that are connected by
Springs. And then by doing
that, you can create something
that looks like clothing, but
it's of course not very
physically accurate. Right. And then
more advanced models is where
you actually look at the,
at the triangle there's little
sheets of cloth, and then
you assimilate over the triangle.
So they're not just separate
masses that are connected. So
over the decades of research
in this space over the
last, you know, 40, 50
years when people have been
thinking about these things, when
computers are starting to get
to that point, are these
varying ways to express cloth,
something that comes out, we
use it for a while
and then we, we get
rid of it and we
stopped doing it. And we
now use the new way,
or is it something where
there's a toolbox of several
ways and you can really
use them on a case
by case basis. There's, there's
definitely a toolbox. And I
guess it depends on, on
your use case. Like if
you want, if you like,
you probably wouldn't use the
same algorithm for a game
as you would for a
movie, just because the quality
is so different, but then
again, like one is really
fast and one is slower.
So you kind of have
that trade off there. I
think the, the, the algorithms
are, are pretty stable, but
you get these additional research
findings, whereas like maybe a
better collision model or maybe
a better fiction model and
you can, can swap out
components or add into what
GERD this thing, a solver.
I don't think it's very
typical that people would like
write a new solver every
year, every year, every other
year, just because a new
technique came up. I see.
So looking in the overview
of the book, as you
kind of walk through the
research from the eighties through
the nineties, the late nineties,
as people start to learn
what the, you know, what
is either the right way
or a way that is
going to work, moving up
into triangle based cloth simulations
in the late, in the
late nineties. When did people
start thinking about the state
of the cloth? Like burlap
is going to move differently
than silk. And if it's
wet, it's gonna move differently
than if it's dry. Yeah.
So that's, that's kind of
like, there's, this is the,
the graphics approach to things.
And then there's also the
engineering approach right. With, so
there's a textile industry has
been, they use different models,
which are, which are much
more accurate and take the
material parameters into account. Whereas
graphics is we have different
material parameters, but we're mostly
interested in how does it
look and how does it
behave rather than if I
apply this much force on
it, how much millimeters would
it like stretch or something
like that. Right. Which is
a very engineering kind of
purpose that you want. So
people have definitely be an
interested in, because you know,
you want to simulate different
materials and you want to
have it behave like the
materials. But usually I would
say that there's some sort
of library of coefficients that
have been developed by an
artist or someone that says
like, Oh, this is, this
is linen. This is wool.
This is leather, but it's
not necessarily, you don't necessarily
have to like, do the
actual stress tests on a,
on a mechanical bench and
then get those coefficients from
there. Cause the oldest simulation
methods are approximate to right.
Well ultimately they're just picking
a number that looks right.
Like for example, I had
someone on recently who worked
on flight simulators and she
would go up in the
actual airplane with like physical
mechanics, physical equipment and measure
G-forces as she spun around
in the thing and then
come down and then make
sure that her software, you
know, expressed reality, which was
more interesting to her than
what it looked like. It
had to feel. Right. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I think for
graphics, we're mostly interested what
it looks like, but then
of course, if you want
to validate your software, there's
has to have reasonable results.
Right. So you can definitely
compare it to reality, but
it's not that it's like
the ultimate test is to
get exactly what reality does.
Cause there's so many, you
have discretization error like approximation,
like if your triangles are
big, it's not the same.
If having real, really small
triangles, there's like friction models,
you're colliding with the world.
So you have to like
model the world perfectly too.
So it's really hard to
recreate the physical world in
a simulation, I would say.
And how, what kind of
improvements have happened in, is
it, is it just algorithmic
improvements or is it also
the fact that the people
making the algorithm know that
processors are a hundred or
a thousand or 10,000 or
a million times faster than
they were when the original
algorithms were Greeted? Yeah. So
there's, there's definitely the, the
hardware is definitely important recently.
And especially with GPS becoming
really important, different types of
solvers have also been, been
developed. So one thing that
comes to mind is it's
position based dynamics, which paralyzes
really, really well. So that
would fit really nicely onto
GPS. So, so yeah, there's
definitely a relation between algorithms
and, and hardware that is
used these days. And, and
when, when, when thinking about
three D graphics or a
game where you have to
do it in real time,
I wonder, do you have
to simulate, like for example,
someone's running and they're wearing
a dress, do you simulate
the totality of the dress?
Both what can be seen
and what isn't seen because
what is occluded or what
is behind the person might
affect how the cloth drapes
in the front, or can
you optimize by only draping?
What can be seen? Well,
that's hard of course. Cause
what if the character turns
around, right? Like the cough
does have needs to have
a state like for the
whole garment. Right. I think
for games, what typically would
be done is you have
two resolutions of the garment.
And one is the assimilation
mesh, which is a geometry,
which is usually pretty low
resolution. And then one is
the, what we call the
render geometry is which we
show to their user, which
is what exactly seen on
this screen. And so this
is more higher resolution. And
then we deformed the high
resolution with the results of
our low resolution simulation. So
we get these details on
the garment, maybe like a
bow tie or buttons or
stitches from the scenes, but
we don't actually simulate all
that detail. But by, by
moot, by the forming the
high resolution with the movement
of the low resolution, we
can kind of fake simulating
the whole thing. Right. Ah,
interesting. And then I suppose
that could be a, that
resolution of the mesh, the
resolution of the, how the
cloth drapes versus the texture
of the clause could be
on a person by person
basis. Like someone with a
big thick dress would need
lower resolution than someone who
has on only a tee
shirt. Like what I'm saying
is that you would need
higher resolution and more triangles
if the detailed mattered of
a closeup or the clothes
or the person got you
or the thinness of the
fabric and you might say,
yeah, well the wrinkles don't
look right because the underlying
mesh Of course. Yeah, exactly.
And it's also collisions with
the body, right? Like if,
if, if your triangle it's
the body, you don't want
to go inside the body.
But if the triangle is
really large, it might create
artifacts. Cause you're pushing the
whole triangle out. Whereas if
it's smaller, it would be
more, more of a subtle
effect. So yeah, there's definitely
the trade off between like
high resolution is better quality,
but it's also slower of
course. Oh, interesting. Okay. So
then that means that the
triangle size or the size
of the, the granularity of
the mesh and forgive me
if I'm using the wrong
terms here, you know, would
change based on where it
is on the body. If
it's in the armpits or
on the elbow, it's going
to want you'd want more
detail than if it were
just draping around That's that's
yeah. Something that definitely could
be considered as an optimization.
Yeah. Interesting. This episode is
sponsored by stack overflow for
teams, a private secure home
for your team's questions and
answers. It's everything that you
love about stack overflow now
for your company and get
instant, reliable answers from your
coworkers without disrupting them unlike
documentation or wikis, long email
threads, or distracting instant messages,
Q and a mimics the
way that we naturally share
and find information, introduce stack
overflow for teams to your
company and start building products
faster and better visit S
dot T K slash Hanselman
it's to get your first
month free. That's S dot
T K slash Hansel minutes.
At one point, if you're
making a movie though, does
your algorithm get into the
face of the art director
where it's correct and it
looks okay to you, but
they, they want on a
frame by frame or a
scene by scene way Change
things. Yeah. This is actually
very common. The simulator will
tell you we're approximating physics.
So the similar would tell
you like, look, this is
what physics would do, right?
This is what the real
world would like. It's approximation
of that. But then for,
for movies and especially like
animated movies, which can be
highly art directed, the clothing
of the characters, kind of
give something away about the
character. Maybe the villain in
the movie would have like
more like pointy clothing or
the silhouettes would be more
like sharp edges. Whereas like
if it's someone you're supposed
to, like in a movie,
the clothing will be softer
where the folds will be
like rounder and not as
like Chris. So this is
these very subtle cues that
the director wants to give
to you as a viewer,
do S do like, is
this going to be a
good person to move? You're
a bad person in the
movie. So artists definitely want
this control over their simulations,
where they can specify where
they want folds to forum.
How, how big should these
folds be? When should they
form? So there's definitely a
lot of research and, and
know how that exists in
these big studios to create
these simulations, to adapt them,
to do exactly what the
artist wants. And I think
this is typically called art
tractability. So this is something
that you run on top
of your simulation algorithm to
do enforce what the artist
wants. So you kind of,
so you, you make it
art directed. So you follow
what the artist says it
wants you to do, but
then you also use physics
to have something that looks
believable to the viewer. So
you have to try to
find this, this trade off
between a realism and goal
States that you're trying to
hit. It seems like whether
it's movies or games that
there's definitely this push towards
photo realism. Everyone wants it
to look hyper-realistic I wonder
though, is that this the
same movement within cloth? Are
you always wanting it to
be as realistic as possible?
Or do they ever just
say, well, forget physics. I
want it to look like
this. Well, it's, there's, there's
definitely different things that you're
interested in, right? So one
thing is you want it
to look really realistic and
you want it to be
effortless. Like you just want
to press the star and
you want it to do
what you want, but for
simulations, this is typically not
the case because there's a
number of things you have
to take into account. Like
the simulation can fail sometimes.
Yet, if you miss a
collision, then you have like
a poke, true, like the
body coming, or like the
clothing is penetrating the body,
which is not a fish,
it creates visual artifacts that
you don't want. Right. It's
like the wrong solution to
the problem. And then other
things that you typically have
with these numerical algorithm is
that they're not always stable,
which basically means that if
your time step to advance,
the simulation forward in time
is too big. You can
have maybe oscillations or the
simulations giving, producing really weird
behavior or visually disturbing behavior.
So there's, there's things like
that that you have to
take into account. So I
think realism is definitely a
big, important thing, but then
also the stability or the
reliability of the algorithm is
important too, because if you're
on a simulation, that's going
to take maybe for a
movie, it might take like
several hours. You kind of
want to seem like to
reliably know that it's worth
running those two hours and
not like seeing that, Oh,
it filled after like two
frames, right? How different are
the tools and implementations that
focus on real time as
the goal versus the ones
that are offline more like
creating a movie, I assume
that they don't necessarily render
that render a movie from
Pixar In real time. No,
definitely not. Yeah. I think
that one of the things
that it's notable in the
algorithms is that the more,
the slower the algorithm, the
more accurate usually. So they
will like a model the
real world better. Whereas for
games you're interested in, in
the dynamics and you want
something that, that looks good
and is very reactive to
the player movement. So you
use something that's maybe more
approximate, but really fast. Are
these things being driven by,
by data? Like, can you
preprocess how clothing moves? Can
you look at it, analyze
cloth behavior in real time
and like store it in
some kind of a machine
learning model and teach machine,
how things move or is
it always more like Ray
tracing? No, there are definitely
like data driven approaches that
exist in research. There's been,
been a lot of papers
that have been published on
this, where you would maybe
do a low resolution simulation
and then you would feel
like, try to place wrinkles
on top of the clothing
based on simulations that you've
run in an offline process
before that. So, you know,
like, Oh if I, if
I make this movement, these
wrinkles will form. So you
can kind of copy over
that data onto the geometry.
And then more recently there
have been a more like
machine learning, AI techniques where
they, they, they learn a
model that can Hanse that
can add details in a
UV space, in a normal
map. So you can have
these really fast seem like,
or like you have a
low resolution simulation and you
can add details based on
some, some machine learning approach.
Okay, interesting. So I'm trying
to visualize the layers here.
There's the potential of the
mesh layer that is the,
the cloth in a low
resolution group of, of, of
triangles. And then there's the
texture over the top of
it. And then the normal
map goes onto the top
of that. Yeah. The, so
the normal maps is how
it, like there's this, this
paper card called deep wrinkles.
And what they do is
they use a normal map
to change the normals locally
on the surface. So they
can, they can, they can
add a wrinkle detail in,
in the texture, like in
the, in the viewport, based
on the light and flick
how they affect the surface.
So it's so interesting to
be like a, an armchair
quarterback because you know how
you watch football and you
go, Oh, I can do
that. Like when I read
the deep wrinkles paper beforehand,
I was like, of course,
of course that's how you
do it. Like after the
fact, like I get it
now, how often does that
come up in this space
of research where someone comes
up with an idea and
then everyone's like, Oh yes,
it's been out there just
waiting for someone to pluck
it out of, out of
obscurity, this idea, The ideas
definitely go up. It's not
it's of course, a lot
of work to first get
the idea and then prove
that it works and then
validate the model compared to
other methods. So, I mean,
there's definitely times that you
think like, Oh, that's a
great idea. Wish I had
a thought of it. But
even if you did, it
would still have been a
lot of work to actually
implement it and prove that
it works. Right. So It's
a good point because in
the space of academia, you
can't just have the idea
and write a blog post,
you have to have the
idea and then write it.
Peer reviewed paper where 19
of the pages are comparisons.
There's a lot of work
to it's published paper. Yeah,
for sure. Does this, does
this feel like the space
that you've chosen to live
in the space of cloth
simulation? Does it feel like
something that you'll ever it'll
never be done and it'll
all be commoditized or will
there always be room to
improve? I think there will
always be room to improve,
especially with like new applications
in virtual reality or augmented
reality, opening up where we
won like lower energy consumption.
We have, the hardware is
not as good as computers,
but we want everything in
real time. Visualized, you have
to share the processes with
different part of different algorithms
and stuff like that. So
there's definitely a lot of
stuff that has to be
done before we're there. So
it's going to take awhile
before we get that. There
was an amazing thing that
I saw in a SIGGRAPH
2008 papers. This is 10
years ago. Now that was
simulating knitted cloth at the
yarn Level, which gets me
thinking about my texture. Like
I sweater is a very,
very different thing than like
a fleece. Yeah. That's, that's
a really cool work and
that's from Stanford, I think.
And there's, they're working on
it, working on more recent
work on that too. So
that's very interesting to see
how they can do like
actual yarns and how the
individual yarns are colliding. Or
if you pull one, how
it affects like the whole
structure. Yeah. It's definitely a
very cool work. I think
it would be even interesting
if you were doing a
movie and then in the
movie, a piece of the
yarn gets pulled on and
then how does it affect
the entire, the entire outfit?
Like the yarn and their
simulations, at least in 2008
was perfect, but when it's
not perfect, then things really
good. Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. No,
it's, it's a definitely interesting.
It also has applications in,
in more like the traditional
industry. So such as like
the, you know, companies making
knitted clothing, maybe they can
do virtual prototypes and get
better understanding of what it
will look like. Or they
can optimize over like material
user or however they're going
to do their stitches so
they can do the way
I understand that there's different
types of stitches you can
do. So maybe they can
like, see like, Oh, I'm
going to try this parent,
this parent. And they can
get a really accurate visualization
of what it's going to
look like and how it's
going to drape and move.
So that would definitely speed
up their design process too.
If someone is listening to
this podcast and they're thinking
about either the game or
the thing that they're working
on, or the movie that
they're working on in their,
in their spare time, where
do they get started? They
have to get a PhD
and read about this or
do they go and get
something like Nvidia clothing or
some off the shelf plugin
and start there when they're
thinking of About how clothing
and cloth moves within their
application? Well, they can get
the book and write their
own simulator. Of course. Yeah.
But, but yeah, there's, there's
a few simulators out there.
There's the more researchy math
heavy where you can actually
get the code and then
change the algorithm or you
can, there's a Nvidia physics
or other solvers that you
can try and play with.
Or the ones in the
game engines are 3d engines,
such as Maya or blender.
Yeah. Those are all things
that you can start like
open up and plug in
and just start playing with
with the different settings. It
seems like there's a lot
of source code online for
this kind of stuff. Like
yes, people I'm sure keep
them to themselves and, and,
and patent them, but it's
a surprising amount of people
sharing their code and their
algorithms Freely. Yeah. It's a,
it's a pretty open community.
I would say. There's definitely
a lot of stuff to
get started, but it's not,
of course not at the
level of something that may
be a special effects studio,
but use right. Cause they
have a lot, many years
of in house knowledge, that's
built on top of that.
But if you want to
get like an understanding of
how these things work yet,
then there are the fee
out there that you can
check out. And that definitely
juxtaposes that different than if
the use case that doing
offline rendering versus doing real
time game rendering on, on
a, an over an off
the shelf machine, like my
desktop machine or even on
a mobile device. I'm sure
that's mobile cloth is an
entirely different way of thinking.
Yeah. It's, it's definitely different
approaches to the same problem,
depending on what what's most
important to you or your
application, for sure. No, it's
not necessarily cloth, but I
did want to point out
that you also did a
paper on real time oil
painting on mobile hardware. How
to like bring down a
digital oil painting system on
something as resource constraint, as
an iPad. Yeah. That was
a, it was an interesting
project. So the idea was
that we can do oil
painting, but really accurate old
painting. So we have actual
fluid simulations. We have different
colors that would the pigments
that would mix in different
ways, like in like the
way real color mixes, which
is not the RGB way
that computers typically do it.
So that the challenges that
were to get really accurate
color models and then simulate
everything in real time. And
then it was interesting. Cause
I worked with a lot
of artists and then I
got their feedback. So they
were, they were brought into
the feedback loop very early
on. So they would like
be like, Oh, this doesn't
look real. This does look
real. This works well, this
doesn't work well. So that
was a, yeah. That was
a really fun project. Yeah.
That sounds so interesting. These
are all examples where someone
can look at it negatively
and think, Oh yeah. Well
how, how hard is that?
But when you start thinking
about, you know, runny or
diluted paint and having things,
having the stroke changed the
paint and that stroke, you
have to have an infinite
number of strokes and are
really long running painting. How
do you optimize all those,
all those shots. Yeah. And
then you want it running
on like some, the cheapest
hardware you can get. Right.
So there's a definitely a
lot of challenges that you
want to, you want to
solve there. Yeah. It sounds
like it's a fun space
and a space that you're
going to hopefully enjoy a
very long career in. Yeah.
We'll see. Hopefully You can
check out the book that
Torah stoke has written. I've
got links in the show
notes. It is a short
read, but a hundred pages,
but it is a great
overview into the space. I'll
have show notes for all
the things we talked about,
the different papers, the research
papers, as well as a
place where you can buy
the book. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again. .